# July 2024

I like to keep to a schedule as best I can.  On work days I:

- Wake up,
- Make some [green tea](https://www.adagio.com/green/dragon_pearl.html),
- Read through my emails and slack messages,
- Open my todo list and Jira board (which is my "work todo list"),
- Make a plan for the rest of the day.

In the last year I've gotten back into RSS feeds as a news aggregator.  Weekdays I'll get around 120 articles.  Of these,

- Around 40 have an interesting or informative headline,
- Of those 40, around 15 are worth skimming or listening to,
- Of these 15, around 1 or 2 are worth a serious read.

When I give something a "serious read" it's probably going to be something I want to share --- not only because I want others to read it, but also because it helps _me_ learn and remember whatever content is in the article.  Sometimes it's a catchy song, sometimes it's a cool tutorial, sometimes it's a neat piece of technology.  Who knows.

I decided to post an aggregate of the "serious reads" by month.  It's easiest for me to jot things down in markdown and pop it into github so that's why it looks like this.

Thank you for reading, I hope you find something cool.

## Links

<!-- 
Music :: ðŸŽ¸
Data :: ðŸ“Š
General Software :: ðŸ’»
Papers :: ðŸ“
Math :: âœï¸
 -->

- ðŸŽ¸ [Juliaplaysgroove's Bass Cover of "Good Luck, Babe!" by Chappell Roan](https://youtu.be/_LBMgiJQelA?si=fOLKG1r7a8l0_EHU): Polish bass player and youtube superstar Julia Przybysz picks up her fretless and covers that catchy ABBA-ish song that you heard at least twenty times during the Pride Parade.  Love it.

- âœï¸ [Modus Tollens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modus_tollens): I was editing a story someone had written and there was a back-and-forth like this:

    > "If a great carpenter builds a house it will never collapse."
    >
    > "But our house was completely demolished!"
    >
    > "Right.  I'm not a great carpenter."

    I remembered a long time ago taking a logic class where we did rules of inference; this line closely resembles _Modus Tollens_ ("_modus tollendo tollens_": "method of removing by taking away").  The formal statement of _modus tollens_ is $$P->Q,\not P\therefore \not Q$$.

    One example closer to the actual rule is something like: "If Anne is with Beth, Anne will be happy.  Anne is not happy.  It must be the case that Anne is not with Beth."

    Poor Anne.
